SAMPLE INTERVIEW QUESTIONS

Common Questions
Tell me about yourself.
What are your long-range and short-range goals/objectives.
How has college prepared you for this job.
What have you learned from your mistakes.
What questions do you have for me.
Strengths
Convey your top five reasons to be hired.
What do you consider your 3 greatest strengths. Provide me an example of when you used your
strengths.
What is your greatest weakness.
What qualifications do you have that make you think you will be successful.
Why should we hire you.

Motivation
Show the interviewer you are motivated to contribute, stay with the organization, and grow.
Why did you decide to pursue a career in this field/industry.
Tell me about the jobs you have enjoyed the most. Tell me about the jobs you have enjoyed the least.
What about those jobs did you specifically like or dislike.
Where would you like to see yourself three years from now with this company.
How much did you research this company before applying. What specific things about this job most
excite you. What specific things about this job least excite you.
Tell me about any professional development you have completed. Why did you choose it. What
professional development opportunities would you like to take in the future and why.

Fit
Know the organization and match your personality, goals, knowledge and values to it.
Why did you decide to seek a job with us.
In what type of work environment do you perform best. How would you change your previous work
environment to make it more productive.
What type of individuals do you enjoy working with the most. What types of individuals do you like
working with the least.
Tell me about the best supervisor with whom you have worked. What was his or her management style.
Tell me about the most difficult supervisor you have had. Why did you find it difficult to work with him
or her.
In what ways do you think you can make a contribution to our company.

Behavioral Questions
Tell me about a time when you had to meet a deadline which didn’t seem to allow enough time. How
did you proceed. What was the outcome.
Give me an example of a conflict or problem that you experienced in previous work settings, and how
you handled it.

CAREER SERVICES
UNIVERSITY CENTER, 2ND FLOOR • 970-351-2127 • www.unco.edu/careers


Describe a situation when you had to make a decision and key information was slow in coming to you.
What action did you take. What was the outcome.



Give me a specific example of time when you sold your supervisor (professor) on an idea or a concept.
How did you proceed. What was the result.
Describe the system you use for keeping track of multiple projects. How do you track the progress of
various projects in relation to their deadline. How do you stay focused.
Describe two of the most significant challenges you have experienced in your career (education). How
did you overcome them. What did you learn.
Give me a specific example of a time when you took the initiative to improve or streamline a task at a
previous job (class). Why was a change necessary. What was the outcome.
Describe a time when you went out of your way to help someone understand a new task or procedure.



QUESTIONS TO ASK D URING AN INTERVIEW


Matching Qualifications/Strengths
What qualities are you looking for in new hires.
What characteristics does a successful person in your organization possess.
What are your expectations of new employees.
What are some of the achievements made by employees in this position in the past.


Fit
Describe the ideal candidate for this job.
What is the organization’s attitude about advancing people from within.
How would you describe the overall work atmosphere.
What tasks will occupy the majority of my time.


Hiring Process
What is the next step in the hiring process.
Do you have any questions or concerns about my ability to do this job that would prevent us from
moving to the next step in the process.
When do you want to have the position filled.


Position Information
What would a typical day’s work look like in this position.
Will I work as part of team and if so, who will be in the group.
What are the three top goals you’ve set for this position for the coming year.
What are the biggest challenges I’ll face in this position.


Management
How will my performance be evaluated.
How would you describe your organization’s personality and management style.
Is there a current organizational chart available for the company/ this department.



QUESTIONS TO AVOID
Avoid asking specific questions on salary, benefits, perks, vacation time, or focus too much on the
compensation during the preliminary interview process.
NEED ASSISTANCE.
Conduct a practice interview with Career Services Staff. Call 970-351-2127 to schedule an appointment.

CAREER SERVICES
UNIVERSITY CENTER, 2ND FLOOR • 970-351-2127 • www.unco.edu/careers

